We now have a class based component which allows us access to lifecycle methods like component will
mount.
There's a couple other lifecycle methods that are going to learn about over time.
But right now we just care about component will mount as a reminder component will mount is called the
instant this component is about to be placed on the screen of the mobile device which makes it a fantastic
location to start initiating some data loading process for application.
So now we know where we want to make the Ajax request all that remains is actually making the Ajax request.
So we need to somehow make an age TTP request and go fetch our data from this remote API to make the
actual request.
Fortunately it's not the worst thing in the world.
It's kind of straightforward actually.
Not a lot of code for us to write to do so we're going to install a library called X-ers.
So over in my project directory I'm inside of albums right now.
I'm going to install the X-ers library by using NPM so I'll right out and then install dash dash save
axioms.
So the sole purpose of X is for us is just to make an HDTV TTP request to fetch some data that is already
using it for here.
So after the installation is complete there we go.
Fantastic.
We'll flip back over to our component and we need to import that library into this file right here.
Remember just installing it doesn't do anything for us.
We actually have to import it into our file.
So at the top we will import X-posts from access.
Then inside of component will mount I'm going to take out the console log statement.
We don't really need it anymore.
And instead we will make our HTP request to make a request like a get type request which is going to
be used to fetch our data.
We will use accedes dot get.
And then we just have to pass in the URL to our remote API.
So if you recall it is age TTP s.
Make sure.
Please please please that you're you are using age TTB or not HTP slash slash.
Was it course API.
No.
OK I need to I need to go doublecheck reli coding Dr. Hoku out daikon.
I was way off there.
OK.
Raley coating dot Heroku app.
Make sure that you have Heroku app and not just Heroku dot com slash API slash music albums go.
So whenever we make an HDTV request with ASIO's making actual request or this function call right here
returns a promise back to us.
It returns a promise because making the HCV request isn't inherently asynchronous.
So we need to use a promise to get some type of notification that oh hey like a you know Ajax request
or HTB request is now complete our data is here.
Here you go.
So we will chain on a dot then statement and to this dot then we'll pass a function.
And so the whole purpose of the promise here is that this function that we passed to then will be called
once the HTB request is complete.
So it'll be called with the response from that API.
So let's put on response and for now we'll just cancel it.
We'll see what we're working with all right.
So I'm going to flip over to our debugger.
So I did bugger and I'll refresh the simulator.
So my expectation is that when I refresh our simulator it will automatically make our HTP request and
I should see the data pop up in our console.
So refresh
and you know eventually something's going to happen.
There we go.
OK very good.
So now here's my log.
I can expand this.
So this is the response object that was passed back to us from X-ers.
So I see a status of 200 which means a request successful everything is good to go.
And you'll notice I have this data property right here.
So if I expand data I've got five entries and each one is an individual album.
Fantastic.
That's it.
That's the data we need to show inside of our application.
So this is exactly what we need.
So it looks like we're all set.
Oh you know I totally forgot we would be set if it wasn't for one tiny little problem just a tiny little
problem here.
And going to pull open a diagram really quick.
All right.
So we got one just tiny little issue that we're gonna have to figure out here.
I want to walk through the timeline of our application right now.
I want to walk through and figure out what's going on.
So going down is time.
So first we start up our application and then you know basically some stuff happens.
Let's walk through it step by step.
We refresh the simulator react native boots up and it says OK you know I'm booting up I need to show
that app component on the screen.
I'm going to go ahead and render it when we render the app component it renders itself it renders the
header and it renders the album list when the album list gets rendered it says oh I'm a class based
component.
I'm about to be rendered to the screen and I have a life cycle method called component will mount.
I'm supposed to call that.
So I'm going to call it component will now.
So a component will mount is executed.
And inside of there we've got some amount of code that is going to issue NHTSA request.
So we make the 8st request using X-posts.
Now the key here the thing that I want to really keep your mind on is that when we make an age request
that is inherently asynchronous and by asynchronous means it takes some amount of time to complete that
network request and we have no idea how long it's going to take especially on a mobile device.
It might take 50 milliseconds it might take 50 seconds on the mobile device.
We have no idea.
So the instant after we make that TTB request.
The request is still pending it's still just kind of sitting out there on the wire.
And immediately after that our app component our album lists component and our head component appear
on the screen.
And at that point in time the album list is completely empty it has no data whatsoever.
Right of course we don't really have any JSA.
We just have like the text in there but in theory if we had some logic in there to render a list of
albums at the point in time that the album list first renders it has no data to show on the screen.
OK so then that dot dot dot which means we're waiting for the requests to complete after some number
of milliseconds are HDTV request completes and we get back some based on data and that data is the stuff
we actually want to show on the screen.
And so here's the key.
Here's the big issue here is what's going wrong.
We have an order of operations problem.
We make our request.
We try to render some stuff at the screen.
We have no data to show.
And then some time later we actually get our data.
And right now as it stands right now we have absolutely no logic in there whatsoever to say oh our Ajax
request just completed we need to like Re-Read for our components somehow we need to take this data
and actually show on the screen we have zero logic for that whatsoever.
So that is what the big problem is we need to figure out some way to make our album list re render a
second time when our HDTV request completes and we've got some data to show on the screen.
So that's that's essentially it.
That's our big issue we need to figure out how to tell the album list to re-enter.
So this is a big challenge.
Let's continue on the next section and figure out how we're going to solve it.